NAME

    Test2::Suite - Distribution with a rich set of tools built upon the
    Test2 framework.

DESCRIPTION

    Rich set of tools, plugins, bundles, etc built upon the Test2 testing
    library. If you are interested in writing tests, this is the
    distribution for you.

 WHAT ARE TOOLS, PLUGINS, AND BUNDLES?

    TOOLS

      Tools are packages that export functions for use in test files. These
      functions typically generate events. Tools SHOULD NEVER alter
      behavior of other tools, or the system in general.

    PLUGINS

      Plugins are packages that produce effects, or alter behavior of
      tools. An example would be a plugin that causes the test to bail out
      after the first failure. Plugins SHOULD NOT export anything.

    BUNDLES

      Bundles are collections of tools and plugins. A bundle should load
      and re-export functions from Tool packages. A bundle may also load
      and configure any number of plugins.

    If you want to write something that both exports new functions, and
    effects behavior, you should write both a Tools distribution, and a
    Plugin distribution, then a Bundle that loads them both. This is
    important as it helps avoid the problem where a package exports
    much-desired tools, but also produces undesirable side effects.

INCLUDED BUNDLES

    Test2::V#

      These do not live in the bundle namespace as they are the primary
      ways to use Test2::Suite.

      The current latest is Test2::V0.

          use Test2::V0;
          # strict and warnings are on for you now.
      
          ok(...);
      
          # Note: is does deep checking, unlike the 'is' from Test::More.
          is(...);
      
          ...
      
          done_testing;

      This bundle includes every tool listed in the "INCLUDED TOOLS"
      section below, except for Test2::Tools::ClassicCompare. This bundle
      provides most of what anyone writing tests could need. This is also
      the preferred bundle/toolset of the Test2 author.

      See Test2::V0 for complete documentation.

    Extended

      ** Deprecated ** See Test2::V0

          use Test2::Bundle::Extended;
          # strict and warnings are on for you now.
      
          ok(...);
      
          # Note: is does deep checking, unlike the 'is' from Test::More.
          is(...);
      
          ...
      
          done_testing;

      This bundle includes every tool listed in the "INCLUDED TOOLS"
      section below, except for Test2::Tools::ClassicCompare. This bundle
      provides most of what anyone writing tests could need. This is also
      the preferred bundle/toolset of the Test2 author.

      See Test2::Bundle::Extended for complete documentation.

    More

          use Test2::Bundle::More;
          use strict;
          use warnings;
      
          plan 3; # Or you can use done_testing at the end
      
          ok(...);
      
          is(...); # Note: String compare
      
          is_deeply(...);
      
          ...
      
          done_testing; # Use instead of plan

      This bundle is meant to be a mostly drop-in replacement for
      Test::More. There are some notable differences to be aware of
      however. Some exports are missing: eq_array, eq_hash, eq_set, $TODO,
      explain, use_ok, require_ok. As well it is no longer possible to set
      the plan at import: use .. tests => 5. $TODO has been replaced by the
      todo() function. Planning is done using plan, skip_all, or
      done_testing.

      See Test2::Bundle::More for complete documentation.

    Simple

          use Test2::Bundle::Simple;
          use strict;
          use warnings;
      
          plan 1;
      
          ok(...);

      This bundle is meant to be a mostly drop-in replacement for
      Test::Simple. See Test2::Bundle::Simple for complete documentation.

INCLUDED TOOLS

    Basic

      Basic provides most of the essential tools previously found in
      Test::More. However it does not export any tools used for comparison.
      The basic pass, fail, ok functions are present, as are functions for
      planning.

      See Test2::Tools::Basic for complete documentation.

    Compare

      This provides is, like, isnt, unlike, and several additional helpers.
      Note: These are all deep comparison tools and work like a combination
      of Test::More's is and is_deeply.

      See Test2::Tools::Compare for complete documentation.

    ClassicCompare

      This provides Test::More flavored is, like, isnt, unlike, and
      is_deeply. It also provides cmp_ok.

      See Test2::Tools::ClassicCompare for complete documentation.

    Class

      This provides functions for testing objects and classes, things like
      isa_ok.

      See Test2::Tools::Class for complete documentation.

    Defer

      This provides functions for writing test functions in one place, but
      running them later. This is useful for testing things that run in an
      altered state.

      See Test2::Tools::Defer for complete documentation.

    Encoding

      This exports a single function that can be used to change the
      encoding of all your test output.

      See Test2::Tools::Encoding for complete documentation.

    Exports

      This provides tools for verifying exports. You can verify that
      functions have been imported, or that they have not been imported.

      See Test2::Tools::Exports for complete documentation.

    Mock

      This provides tools for mocking objects and classes. This is based
      largely on Mock::Quick, but several interface improvements have been
      added that cannot be added to Mock::Quick itself without breaking
      backwards compatibility.

      See Test2::Tools::Mock for complete documentation.

    Ref

      This exports tools for validating and comparing references.

      See Test2::Tools::Ref for complete documentation.

    Spec

      This is an RSPEC implementation with concurrency support.

      See Test2::Tools::Spec for more details.

    Subtest

      This exports tools for running subtests.

      See Test2::Tools::Subtest for complete documentation.

    Target

      This lets you load the package(s) you intend to test, and alias them
      into constants/package variables.

      See Test2::Tools::Target for complete documentation.

INCLUDED PLUGINS

    BailOnFail

      The much requested "bail-out on first failure" plugin. When this
      plugin is loaded, any failure will cause the test to bail out
      immediately.

      See Test2::Plugin::BailOnFail for complete documentation.

    DieOnFail

      The much requested "die on first failure" plugin. When this plugin is
      loaded, any failure will cause the test to die immediately.

      See Test2::Plugin::DieOnFail for complete documentation.

    ExitSummary

      This plugin gives you statistics and diagnostics at the end of your
      test in the event of a failure.

      See Test2::Plugin::ExitSummary for complete documentation.

    SRand

      Use this to set the random seed to a specific seed, or to the current
      date.

      See Test2::Plugin::SRand for complete documentation.

    UTF8

      Turn on utf8 for your testing. This sets the current file to be utf8,
      it also sets STDERR, STDOUT, and your formatter to all output utf8.

      See Test2::Plugin::UTF8 for complete documentation.

INCLUDED REQUIREMENT CHECKERS

    AuthorTesting

      Using this package will cause the test file to be skipped unless the
      AUTHOR_TESTING environment variable is set.

      See Test2::Require::AuthorTesting for complete documentation.

    EnvVar

      Using this package will cause the test file to be skipped unless a
      custom environment variable is set.

      See Test2::Require::EnvVar for complete documentation.

    Fork

      Using this package will cause the test file to be skipped unless the
      system is capable of forking (including emulated forking).

      See Test2::Require::Fork for complete documentation.

    RealFork

      Using this package will cause the test file to be skipped unless the
      system is capable of true forking.

      See Test2::Require::RealFork for complete documentation.

    Module

      Using this package will cause the test file to be skipped unless the
      specified module is installed (and optionally at a minimum version).

      See Test2::Require::Module for complete documentation.

    Perl

      Using this package will cause the test file to be skipped unless the
      specified minimum perl version is met.

      See Test2::Require::Perl for complete documentation.

    Threads

      Using this package will cause the test file to be skipped unless the
      system has threading enabled.

      Note: This will not turn threading on for you.

      See Test2::Require::Threads for complete documentation.

SEE ALSO

    See the Test2 documentation for a namespace map. Everything in this
    distribution uses Test2.

    Test2::Manual is the Test2 Manual.

CONTACTING US

    Many Test2 developers and users lurk on irc://irc.perl.org/#perl. We
    also have a slack team that can be joined by anyone with an @cpan.org
    email address https://perl-test2.slack.com/ If you do not have an
    @cpan.org email you can ask for a slack invite by emailing Chad Granum
    <exodist@cpan.org>.

SOURCE

    The source code repository for Test2-Suite can be found at
    https://github.com/Test-More/Test2-Suite/.

MAINTAINERS

    Chad Granum <exodist@cpan.org>

AUTHORS

    Chad Granum <exodist@cpan.org>

COPYRIGHT

    Copyright 2018 Chad Granum <exodist@cpan.org>.

    This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
    under the same terms as Perl itself.

    See http://dev.perl.org/licenses/

